feat: atlantis import (#2783)
runatlantis/atlantis: runatlantis.io/docs/command-requirements.md

# Command Requirements
[[toc]]

## Intro

> Atlantis allows you to require certain conditions be satisfied **before** `atlantis apply` and `atlantis import`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Atlantis requires certain conditions be satisfied **before** `atlantis apply` and `atlantis import`
```

commands can be run:

* [Approved](#approved) – requires pull requests to be approved by at least one user other than the author
* [Mergeable](#mergeable) – requires pull requests to be able to be merged
* [UnDiverged](#undiverged) - requires pull requests to be ahead of the base branch

## What Happens If The Requirement Is Not Met?
If the requirement is not met, users will see an error if they try to run `atlantis apply`:
![Mergeable Apply Requirement](./images/apply-requirement.png)

## Supported Requirements
### Approved
The `approved` requirement will prevent applies unless the pull request is approved
by at least one person other than the author.

#### Usage

> You can set the `approved` requirement by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `approved` requirement by:
```

1. Passing the `--require-approval` flag to `atlantis server` or
1. Creating a `repos.yaml` file with the `apply_requirements` key:
   ```yaml
   repos:
   - id: /.*/
     apply_requirements: [approved]
   ```

> 1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify the `apply_requirements` key in your `repos.yaml` config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify the `apply_requirements` key in the `repos.yaml` config:
```

    #### repos.yaml
    ```yaml
    repos:
    - id: /.*/
      allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements]
    ```

    #### atlantis.yaml
    ```yaml
    version: 3
    projects:
    - dir: .
      apply_requirements: [approved]

>      ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
```

#### Meaning
Each VCS provider has different rules around who can approve:
* **GitHub** – **Any user with read permissions** to the repo can approve a pull request

> * **GitLab** – You [can set](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/merge_requests/merge_request_approvals.html) who is allowed to approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **GitLab** – The user who can approve can be set in the [repo settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/merge_requests/merge_request_approvals.html)
```

* **Bitbucket Cloud (bitbucket.org)** – A user can approve their own pull request but
  Atlantis does not count that as an approval and requires an approval from at least one user that
  is not the author of the pull request
* **Azure DevOps** – **All builtin groups include the "Contribute to pull requests"** permission and can approve a pull request

:::tip Tip

> If you want to require **certain people** to approve the pull request, look at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To require **certain people** to approve the pull request, look at the
```

[mergeable](#mergeable) requirement.
:::

### Mergeable
The `mergeable` requirement will prevent applies unless a pull request is able to be merged.

#### Usage

> You can set the `mergeable` requirement by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `mergeable` requirement by:
```

1. Passing the `--require-mergeable` flag to `atlantis server` or
1. Creating a `repos.yaml` file with the `apply_requirements` key:
   ```yaml
   repos:
   - id: /.*/
     apply_requirements: [mergeable]
    ```

> 1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` keys in your `repos.yaml` config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` keys in the `repos.yaml` config:
```

    #### repos.yaml
    ```yaml
    repos:
    - id: /.*/
      allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements, import_requirements]
    ```

    #### atlantis.yaml
    ```yaml
    version: 3
    projects:
    - dir: .
      apply_requirements: [mergeable]
      import_requirements: [mergeable]
    ```

#### Meaning
Each VCS provider has a different concept of "mergeability":

::: warning

> Some VCS providers have a feature for branch protection to control "mergeability". If you want to use it,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some VCS providers have a feature for branch protection to control "mergeability". To use it,
```

> you probably need to limit the base branch not to bypass the branch protection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
limit the base branch so to not bypass the branch protection.
```

* Reset code reviewer votes when there are new changes
* Require a specific merge strategy (squash, rebase, etc.)

::: warning
At this time, the Azure DevOps client only supports merging using the default 'no fast-forward' strategy. Make sure your branch policies permit this type of merge.
:::

### UnDiverged
Prevent applies if there are any changes on the base branch since the most recent plan.
Applies to `merge` checkout strategy only.

#### Usage
You can set the `undiverged` requirement by:
1. Creating a `repos.yaml` file with `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` keys:
   ```yaml
   repos:
   - id: /.*/
     apply_requirements: [undiverged]
     import_requirements: [undiverged]
   ```
1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify the `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` keys in your `repos.yaml` config:
   #### repos.yaml
    ```yaml
    repos:
    - id: /.*/
      allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements, import_requirements]
    ```

   #### atlantis.yaml
    ```yaml
    version: 3
    projects:
    - dir: .
      apply_requirements: [undiverged]
      import_requirements: [undiverged]

>      ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
```

     import_requirements: []
   - id: github.com/runatlantis/atlantis
     apply_requirements: [approved]
     import_requirements: [approved]
     # Exact string match of the github.com/runatlantis/atlantis repo
     # that sets apply_requirements to approved
   ```

1. Specify which projects have which requirements via an `atlantis.yaml` file, and allowing
   `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` to be set in `atlantis.yaml` by the server side `repos.yaml`
   config.

   For example if I have two directories, `staging` and `production`, I might use:
   #### repos.yaml
   ```yaml
   repos:
   - id: /.*/
     allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements, import_requirements]
     # Allow any repo to specify apply_requirements in atlantis.yaml
   ```

   #### atlantis.yaml
   ```yaml
   version: 3
   projects:
   - dir: staging
     # By default, apply_requirements and import_requirements are empty so this
     # isn't strictly necessary.
     apply_requirements: []
     import_requirements: []
   - dir: production
     # This requirement will only apply to the
     # production directory.
     apply_requirements: [mergeable]
     import_requirements: [mergeable]

> 

Reviewer: Is this missing an ending triple backtick?

> # Command Requirements

Reviewer: Hm the renaming of this file will remove any existing links that point to this page.

There's a way to alias pages. If you keep this file rename in place, could you add a link for the original page apply-requirements.md to redirect to the new page?

Author: I added an alias page. I will try redirect plugin later.

https://vuepress-community.netlify.app/en/plugins/redirect/

Reviewer: cc: @chenrui333 @lilincmu in case this is what you folks mentioned a couple months ago

#### Usage
You can set the `undiverged` requirement by:
1. Creating a `repos.yaml` file with `apply_requirements` and `import_requirements` keys:
   ```yaml
   repos:
   - id: /.*/
     apply_requirements: [undiverged]
     import_requirements: [undiverged]
   ```
1. Or by allowing an `atlantis.yaml` file to specify the `apply_requirements` key in your `repos.yaml` config:
   #### repos.yaml
    ```yaml
    repos:
    - id: /.*/

>       allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements, apply_requirements]

Reviewer: Did you mean

```suggestion
      allowed_overrides: [apply_requirements, import_requirements]
```

Author: thanks!, all docs feedback is commited into https://github.com/runatlantis/atlantis/pull/2783/commits/aabc2609246a1338b42dee8662c6f70d26d78cea
